# Sentiment Analysis in Code Annotation Comments on GitHub

Code annotation in open source software serve as vital documentation that helps contributors and users understand the codebase, fostering collaboration and enabling the community to maintain and improve the software effectively. Exploring developers' perspectives on code annotations aids project maintainers in identifying existing issues and effecting timely resolutions, thereby attracting greater developer participation. Hence, we analyze sentiments of comments specific to the code annotation of software project. This paper considered the comment history of GitHub projects from the GHTorrent dataset in the year 2022 and identified 254,196 comments that correspond to the annotation of repositories. We employ sentiment analysis techniques to gain insights into the prevailing sentiments conveyed within the comments. The result reveals that around 35\% of the identified comments express a sense of trust. Further, the experiments explored the necessity of conducting sentiment analysis on different types of comments.

# Dataset
To understand the sentiment of developers towards code annotation in open source repository, we considered projects available on the GitHub platform. We extracted 189,341 issue comments, 47,465 pull request review comments, and 3,397 commit comments related to code annotations in the GHTorrent dataset for the year 2022 through keyword-based search. In addition, this paper considered 13,992 issue titles, as we believe that some developers express their viewpoints directly in the titles by raising issues. 
